Dear coordinator of the submission,

we would like to thank you and your co-reviewers for the work you have done and the many
valuable comments we have received regarding our submission. In our revision, we did our
best in order to address all of the issues you have brought up. Below, you will find our
detailed replies to the points of criticism brought up by the reviewers. The remainder of
this cover letter is structured as follows. First, we cite the comments of the reviewers,
and then we explain the changes we have undertaken in order to address these comments. All
replies are structured based on the specific reviewers, whereby we start with the summary
rating. Even though some of the comments are not commented upon in this cover letter, we
heeded the suggestions nevertheless in the paper. Furthermore, if multiple reviewers
raised the same concern, e.g., missing references, this point is only discussed at the
first appearance and omitted later.

We would also like to point out that we have slightly changed the title of the paper,
which seems to be more appropriate based on the references suggested by the reviewers. We
have changed 'higher-order' to 'high-order' and replaced 'exploration' with
'visualization'. Hopefully this is acceptable with you, otherwise we will of course take
back these modifications.

We hope that all comments have been addressed as expected.

Sincerely yours,
   The authors
   
   
   
   
   
Summary Rating
==============
	> 1. The authors compare their method to a
    > "straight-forward" implementation rather than to previous
    > state-of-the-art.  This should be corrected.

The approach to which we refer to as "straight-forward" approach, is explained in greater
depth in Section 4. Furthermore, the validity for using this method as a comparison to our
approach has been motivated in Section 7.
     

	> 2. Better figures showing how the proxy rays should
    > be generated were requested.
    
A new set of figures (Figure 3(a,b) and Figure 4) has been created to clarify the proxy
ray generation process. In addition, the descriptive text has been improved.


    > 3. Several reviewers requested improved structure,
    > with a better high-level overview at the beginning of the
	> paper.  More implementation details are also needed in order
	> for the work to be reproducible.

We have changed the structure of the paper accordingly and moved the
workflow figure into the introduction section, such that we could give a high-level
description of the presented approaches early on. Here, we also refer to the clustering
and the preprocessing costs.
A new section (Section 6) explaining the implementation details of the method has been
added to the paper.


    > 4. The work as it stands is limited to hexahedral
    > FEM. This should be made more explicit, and the authors
    > should also at least sketch out how it might be extended to
    > other cell types such as prisms, pyramids and tetrahedra,
    > and whether it also applies to elements with curved faces.
    
A new subsection (Section 7.5) concerning the limitations w.r.t. hexahedral elements has
been added in which the generalization to other element faces is elaborated on.


    > 5. Results were only shown for tri-cubic FEM, rather
    > than the range of degrees used in simulation.
    
We included a remark in Section 7, stating that our method is not limited by a specific
degree. Furthermore, we use simulations consisting of tri-cubic as well as bicubic-linear
FEMs.


	> 6. References to work on high-order FEM methods, to
    > ray-tracing methods, &c. need to be added.
    
All relevant references (papers and books) that were mentioned by all reviewers have been
included and referenced in the paper (mainly, but not exclusively in Sections 2 and 3).


	> 7. Concern was also expressed about the level of
	> accuracy of the images, and about the evaluation of their
	> quality.

????????????????????

    > 8. One reviewer noted that opacity is correctly
    > computed in the world space, not in the computational space,
    > unlike most computational properties, and the proposed
    > method does not respect this as it stands.
    
This mistake has been corrected and in Section 5.2 we explain that the sampling points
used for material properties are equally distant spaced in material space, we use the
distance in world space to compute the opacity.


    > 9. A major problem with this approach is the
    > computational cost, in particular the pre-processing time
    > reported of up to 84 hours, and the scalability beyond
    > relatively small meshes.
    
A OpenCL implementation was created (Section 6) and the speedup of an order of magnitude
has been reported in Section 7.3.
Furthermore, we corrected an error with the calculation of the file sizes for Table 2
concerning an ASCII-encoding overhead (before) in comparison to a binary representation
(now). In addition, Section 7.4 was added in which the memory requirements and the
dependent variables for this are described.


    > 10. Since the proxy rays involve parameters defining
    > density etc., at least some discussion of parameter
    > sensitivity would be desirable.
    
Figure 13.a describes the error which is introduced into the system by approximating the
bent ray in material space using a spline defined by varying control points.




Primary Reviewer
================
   > I also note that the memory footprint seems to be
   > much larger than that of the primary data - and this is likely to be a
   > major constraint when applying the technique to other problems.
   
An error in the measurement of the sizes has been corrected (see above). Although the
resulting data sizes are larger than that of the primary data, it is not as bad as it was
stated in the first version of the paper.
Nevertheless, the limitations of our method w.r.t. the number of elements have been
included in numerous places in the paper (Introduction and Sections 6, 7.3, 7.4, 8)


   > Third, there were some recurrent grammatical issues spotted, and it is
   > nearly certain that there are other instances not spotted.
   
We asked an English native speaker to proofread the paper and have addressed all
spotted issues.


   > Minor comments:
   > ...

All of these helpful comments have been addressed in the paper.
   
   
	> "They must also be close to proxy rays having different directions" - why
	> should the directions be different? How many should there be? Â At least
	> give the reader some clue why this condition is being imposed.
	
This part of Section 4.1 has been rewritten to make the impact of the proxy ray's 
directionality with respect to the grid points more clear.
   

	> "Finding the desired dense and omni-directional proxy" - this was the
	> first point where it became clear that your preprocessing was for *ALL*
	> possible directions - this should be more clearly foreshadowed in the
	> introduction and earlier material. Moreover, when one discovers this
	> essential element of the paper by surprise when already deep into the
	> details, it is usually an indication that the paper needs a stronger
	> structure imposed on it.
	
The structure has been improved and a high-level overview has been included in the
introductory section.


	> "It is clear that this metric fulfills ... " - It is not clear, nor is it
	> clear why these properties matter. Please explain.
	
The related sentences in Section 4.2 have been rewritten. We think it necessary to state
that the distance function is, in fact, a valid metric defined by the given three
attributes. But we see it outside the scope of the work to proof the attributes.


	> "which is the best number in general" - is this a hidden parameter? If
	> so, please sketch what choices were made in this paper, and if possible,
	> give some indication of parameter sensitivity
	> "one could apply algorithms for finding an optimal number of clusters" -
	> if it is that important, then it would be proper to give at least
	> empirical observations - see also previous note.
	
This part of Section 4.2 has been rewritten to clarify this misunderstanding. The number
of clusters a parameter we evaluate, for example, in Figure 13.b. Furthermore, we describe
empirical observations concerning the k-means in the implementation section in Section 6.




Secondary Reviewer
==================
    > The work does not make it abundantly clear that they are dealing with
    > hexahedral high-order FEM.  The reviewer agrees that this is certainly an
    > important area and commonly used in solid mechanics, but it is a
    > limitation of the current system as it is not clear how well some of the
    > coherency assumptions would hold when one looked at the mappings used for
	> prisms, pyramids and tetrahedra.
   
The included mentioning the limitation in the introduction section. Since the underlying
principles C^0-continuity between elements and C^p-continuity inside the elements, the 
coherency considerations would hold for these elements as well. Nevertheless, we included
a discussion of the limitations to cuboidal elements in Section 7.5


    > It is not clear if the authors are considering only straight-sided or
    > curved-faced elements.  The statements made concerning the mappings to
    > the reference domain remain correct, but the statements about the
    > "coherency" may be changed based upon how severe the mappings are.

Information about the curvature of the elements has been included in Section 7.1 in which
the examples are explained. Furthermore, the abstract now mentions curved-faced elements
directly and the redone Figure 3 shows a curved element as well.


    > The authors need to make their definition of "interactivity" clear.  They
    > state on page 2 that "...high computational complexity and thus are not
    > feasible in an interactive context".  References (below) seem to
    > contradict this statement (unless clarification is given).
   
We have clarified our understanding of interactivity in the introduction, and further 
elaborate on it in the performance analysis section. Furthermore, we have added the
suggested references and relate to them.


	> The authors do not provide sufficient details to help make the work
	> reproducible.  Timing results are given, but full articulation of the
	> hardware used, compilers, etc., are not given.  In addition, there is not
	> enough implementation details specified that would help a reader (or
	> graduate student) to replicate and then build on this work without
	> significant effort.
	
The hardware that was used to generate the performance results and the precomputation has
been stated in Section 7.3. Furthermore, the programming languages (C++, OpenMP and
OpenCL) are noted in Section 6, which contains also the required implementation details.




Reviewer 3
==========
    > This paper is based on the assumption that the transformation between
    > world and reference space is the computational bottleneck that hinders
    > interactive rendering.  This, however, it not necessarily the case, as
    > illustrated by Brasher et al. and Nelson et al. in the missing previous
    > work (see below), where interactive images are generated with the
    > transformation performed during the rendering phase.  In this reviewer's
    > experience, the cost of the transformation is dependent on the order and
    > shape of the element, as well as the quality of the initial guess (for
    > example, in the case of volume rendering initial guesses can be generated
    > based on the previous sample to improve convergence).  For this argument
    > to be compelling, proof of the impact the mapping has on the overall
	> rendering should be provided.

The impact is already given in Table, where the only difference between the two compared
methods is the mapping that is performed. The SF implementation performs the world-to-xi
transformation for each sample point, whereas our methods omits this transformation in the
rendering step.
Nevertheless, we improved the explanation of the straight-forward approach in Section 4.


	> Section 3, Second paragraph:  What is an associated material property,
	> and how does that relate to the mapping between material and world space?
   
The term 'associated material property' was misleading. We have rewritten the sentence
accordingly.


    > For Figures 11, 14, and 15 to be meaningful, a description of the
	> baseline image used must be provided.  From Figures 11 and 14, it appears
    > accuracy was assumed once no obvious visual artifacts were seen, which is
    > not a compelling argument for accuracy.
    
???????????????


	> Section 3, Third Paragraph:  The first two sentences are confusing.  Any
    > visualization of the high-order field, not just volume visualization,
    > requires the transformation to material space (otherwise the
    > visualization will not have access to the field data).  These first two
    > sentences seem to say that other types of visualization don't require
    > material space.
   
    > Section 4.1, second paragraph:  The sentence starting "While these points
    > should ..." is confusing.

Yes, these sentences were indeed misleading. We have now clarified, that any access to
the field data requires the transformation into material space.   


	> Section 4.1, first paragraph:  This paragraph indicates that both world
    > and material space must be densely populated with rays, yet the technique
    > presented later, with evenly spaced samples in material space, can result
    > in uneven distribution in world space (Meyer et al. below has a nice
    > illustration of this).  The ideal case seems to be even spacing in world
    > space; otherwise, adjacent pixels could encounter sparse areas on the
    > element and end up evaluating the same proxy ray.

A clarifying part was included to make the dense population in world space clear. The even
spacing in world space was already included, but the explanation in Section 4.1 was
improved.


   > Section 4.1, first paragraph:  Two methods of creating the proxy-ray
   > distribution are mentioned.  The first method, using the actual ray
   > distribution, does not appear to be a valid pre-processing step, as it
   > would only apply to specific viewing directions.  It is also not clear
   > how the choice of uniform distribution follows from inter and intra
   > element coherence.

This part was extended and the viewing direction idea was clarified. In addition, the
inter and intra coherency is explained in more detail.


	> Section 4.2, Fourth Paragraph:  What is the naive clustering approach? 
    > It isn't clear how to judge the statement that this approach is better.

The reference to a naive clustering was misleading and the sentence was restructured.


    > Section 4.2, Fifth Paragraph:  Why is the area approximated?  If the
	> proxy rays are represented by splines, couldn't this area be computed
    > analytically?

This valid point was included in the discussion of the metric in Section 4.2. Although it
would be possible to use an analytical solution, we use the same metric in the results
section to analyse the quality of our results. In this part, no closed solution for the
"correct" bent ray is available and therefore an approximation has to be used. This part
was included in the description.


   > Section 5.1, end of first paragraph:  The case of rays entering and
   > exiting an element through the same face is not handled here.
   
This part is now included in Section 6.


   > In both Figures 2 and 3, the color coding is difficult to see, especially
   > when the document is printed.  Consider using thicker lines and fewer
   > lines with greater contrast.

   > Figure 2:  The world space shows several elements, yet the reference
   > space diagram shows only one.  It isn't clear what the relationship
   > between these two diagrams is.  The colors used to represent element
   > edges are difficult to see, especially when printed.

   > Figure 3: the color coding is used to indicate which rays in world space
   > correspond to the curved rays in reference space, but it is very
   > difficult to perform the matching.  Since the elements in material space
   > are not adjacent to each other (as shown in this figure), it isn't clear
   > what relationship is being shown by the grid.

(Old) Figures 2 and 3 have been replaced by a single, newly generated figure which does
not have the stated problems anymore.


	> Figure 4:  This figure makes the proxy ray look a 2D curve (because of
	> the dotted plane), yet it is clear from the text in section 4.2 that it
    > is a 3D curve.  This caused significant confusion during the first
    > read-through, as the figure appears before the associated text, which
    > generated an expectation of a 2D curve.

The figure has been recreated to deliver a better 3D orientation when comparing the
yz-plane with the proxy ray.


	> Section 4.1, 4th paragraph.  The description of this paragraph is at odds
    > with the volume rendering equation being used on page 4.  In this form,
    > areas of the volume can emit without incurring any occlusion, which means
    > that, depending on the transfer function, the areas near the entrance and
    > exit of the element can contribute equally.

??????????????????????????????????


	> Better accuracy results.  There are many areas where approximations are
    > introduced, and it isn't clear how these tradeoffs affect the final
    > image.  It would be nice to see the impact on execution time and final
    > image of all of the free parameters, not just the number of poxy rays.

The approximations are measured in Figure 13 and the results for the different
interpolation schemes are shown in Figure 7. The impact of the number of clusters on
rendering time is shown in Table 1. Since the file sizes and the data structure won't
change for different parameters, the framerates are valid for other parameter sets, e.g.,
number of points per ray as well.


    > While the focus of this paper is on performance, each step of the
    > algorithm introduces error into the final image.  Section 6.2 addresses
    > some accuracy issues, but fails to address several sources of error
    > beyond the number of proxy rays (i.e., representing the proxy ray by a
    > spline, using limited precision depth buffers for ray-element
    > intersections, tesselating curved surfaces for depth peeling,
    > interpolation of proxy rays, and the spacing of the entry and exit
    > points).

All these parameters are now discussed in Sections 6, 7.2 and Figure 13.2. 


   > It would be difficult for a graduate student to implement this method
   > based on the description provided.  In section 4.2, it is unclear how the
   > transformation of proxy rays to a common coordinate system leads to a
   > reduction in the number of proxy rays.  The transformation, in and of
   > itself, won't do that, so it seems there must be a missing step where
   > transformed proxy rays are compared with each other and filtered if they
   > are sufficiently similar.

An implementation section has been added to remedy the problems with the reproducibility.
The sentences concerning the (indirect) reduction of the number of proxy rays were moved
to the clustering and better explained since they where confusing.


	> Figure 9:  This diagram doesn't match the text.  This shows unequally
    > spaced samples along the arc, with equally space samples in world space.

The figure was redone and shows equidistant spacing in material space now, with a different
spacing in world space.




Reviewer 5
==========
	> In my view the presentation is very "wordy" and shows to little math in
    > order to be easily understood. In some paragraphs the text is not easily
    > accessible and I would rather prefer the authors to write down
    > explanations in mathematical language (formulas, equations) using
    > appropriate notation rather than explaining things in words. 
    
A more formal explanation of concepts has been introduced in appropriate cases, thereby
reducing the amount of explanatory text.


	> Also in Section 4.1 the authors claim that they can use two different
    > point distributions for entry and exit points of the proxy rays, because
    > the sample points close to the exit point will have only a small
    > contribution due to the exponential falloff. However, I would think that
    > this also depends on the distance between entry and exit point and the
    > shape of the kernel K. The authors should comment on that.
    
????????????????


	> In the introduction it is not made clear why curved viewing rays are
    > needed. This explanation is postponed until Section 3.
   
We have addressed this issue in the high-level explanation, where we relate the straight
viewing rays to the curves in material space.


    > In Section 3 the notion of curvilinear finite elements is not
    > explained. The elements shown in Figure 2(a) seem not to be curvilinear.
    > Further down in that section: What is supposed to be meant by: "If we
    > assume that each element e_j is defined over the [0,1] interval in \xi"?
    > How can a multi-dimensional element be defined over a one-dimensional
    > interval? 
   
The figures have been regenerated to better show the curvilinearity and an explanation has
been added.
The section surrounding the dimensionality was rewritten to clarify the FE better.
 

	> Section 4 speaks about regularities, which can help in the curve
	> compression. As such the inter-element coherence of FE meshes is named.
	> Is this used here and is it a necessary requirement for the algorithm to
   	> work?
   
The impact of the regularities together with the limitation arising from them is stated
more clearly throughout the paper.
   

   > I am puzzled by the restriction imposed by the authors that "the number
   > of elements should be moderate". The authors do sufficiently not explain
   > this restriction, however the examples shown in section 6.1 have only up
   > to 64 elements. In my view this is a severe restriction as nowadays FE
   > models easily can have thousands of even higher order elements. So I am
   > wondering if the performance gain advocated in the paper can only be
   > achieved if the number of elements is small as shown here.

   > As said above for the numerical experiments I am wondering about the
   > limitation in the number of elements of the grid. 
   
The memory requirements for our methods have been elaborated on in Section 7.4 and Table 2
showing the dependency on the number of faces, elements, and the grid resolution used for
generating the proxy rays.